Ability ID,Ability Name,Effect,Short Effect
1,stench,"This Pokémon's damaging moves have a 10% chance to make the target flinch with each hit if they do not already cause flinching as a secondary effect.

This ability does not stack with a held item.

Overworld: The wild encounter rate is halved while this Pokémon is first in the party.",Has a 10% chance of making target Pokémon flinch with each hit.
2,drizzle,"The weather changes to rain when this Pokémon enters battle and does not end unless replaced by another weather condition.

If multiple Pokémon with this ability, drought, sand stream, or snow warning are sent out at the same time, the abilities will activate in order of Speed, respecting trick room.  Each ability's weather will cancel the previous weather, and only the weather summoned by the slowest of the Pokémon will stay.",Summons rain that lasts indefinitely upon entering battle.
3,speed-boost,This Pokémon's Speed rises one stage after each turn.,Raises Speed one stage after each turn.
4,battle-armor,"Moves cannot score critical hits against this Pokémon.

This ability functions identically to shell armor.",Protects against critical hits.
5,sturdy,"When this Pokémon is at full HP, any hit that would knock it out will instead leave it with 1 HP.  Regardless of its current HP, it is also immune to the one-hit KO moves: fissure, guillotine, horn drill, and sheer cold.

If this Pokémon is holding a focus sash, this ability takes precedence and the item will not be consumed.","Prevents being KOed from full HP, leaving 1 HP instead.  Protects against the one-hit KO moves regardless of HP."
6,damp,"While this Pokémon is in battle, self destruct and explosion will fail and aftermath will not take effect.","Prevents self destruct, explosion, and aftermath from working while the Pokémon is in battle."
7,limber,"This Pokémon cannot be paralyzed.

If a Pokémon is paralyzed and acquires this ability, its paralysis is healed; this includes when regaining a lost ability upon leaving battle.",Prevents paralysis.
8,sand-veil,"During a sandstorm, this Pokémon has 1.25× its evasion, and it does not take sandstorm damage regardless of type.

The evasion bonus does not count as a stat modifier.

Overworld: If the lead Pokémon has this ability, the wild encounter rate is halved in a sandstorm.",Increases evasion to 1.25× during a sandstorm.  Protects against sandstorm damage.
9,static,"Whenever a move makes contact with this Pokémon, the move's user has a 30% chance of being paralyzed.

Pokémon that are immune to electric-type moves can still be paralyzed by this ability.

Overworld: If the lead Pokémon has this ability, there is a 50% chance that encounters will be with an electric Pokémon, if applicable.",Has a 30% chance of paralyzing attacking Pokémon on contact.
10,volt-absorb,"Whenever an electric-type move hits this Pokémon, it heals for 1/4 of its maximum HP, negating any other effect on it.

This ability will not take effect if this Pokémon is ground-type and thus immune to Electric moves.  Electric moves will ignore this Pokémon's substitute.

This effect includes non-damaging moves, i.e. thunder wave.","Absorbs electric moves, healing for 1/4 max HP."
11,water-absorb,"Whenever a water-type move hits this Pokémon, it heals for 1/4 of its maximum HP, negating any other effect on it.

Water moves will ignore this Pokémon's substitute.","Absorbs water moves, healing for 1/4 max HP."
12,oblivious,"This Pokémon cannot be infatuated and is immune to captivate.

If a Pokémon is infatuated and acquires this ability, its infatuation is cleared.",Prevents infatuation and protects against captivate.
13,cloud-nine,"While this Pokémon is in battle, weather can still be in play, but will not have any of its effects.

This ability functions identically to air lock.","Negates all effects of weather, but does not prevent the weather itself."
14,compound-eyes,"This Pokémon's moves have 1.3× their accuracy.

This ability has no effect on the one-hit KO moves (fissure, guillotine, horn drill, and sheer cold).

Overworld: If the first Pokémon in the party has this ability, the chance of a wild Pokémon holding a particular item is raised from 50%, 5%, or 1% to 60%, 20%, or 5%, respectively.",Increases moves' accuracy to 1.3×.
15,insomnia,"This Pokémon cannot be asleep.

This causes rest to fail altogether.  If a Pokémon is asleep and acquires this ability, it will immediately wake up; this includes when regaining a lost ability upon leaving battle.

This ability functions identically to vital spirit in battle.",Prevents sleep.
16,color-change,"Whenever this Pokémon takes damage from a move, the Pokémon's type changes to match the move.

If the Pokémon has two types, both are overridden.  The Pokémon must directly take damage; for example, moves blocked by a substitute will not trigger this ability, nor will moves that deal damage indirectly, such as spikes.

This ability takes effect on only the last hit of a multiple-hit attack.

In Pokémon Colosseum and XD: Gale of Darkness, this ability does not take effect on Shadow-type moves.",Changes type to match when hit by a damaging move.
17,immunity,"This Pokémon cannot be poisoned.  This includes bad poison.

If a Pokémon is poisoned and acquires this ability, its poison is healed; this includes when regaining a lost ability upon leaving battle.",Prevents poison.
18,flash-fire,"This Pokémon is immune to fire-type moves.  Once this Pokémon has been hit by a Fire move, its own Fire moves will inflict 1.5× as much damage until it leaves battle.

This ability has no effect while the Pokémon is frozen.  The Fire damage bonus is retained even if the Pokémon is frozen and thawed or the ability is lost or disabled.  Fire moves will ignore this Pokémon's substitute.  This ability takes effect even on non-damaging moves, i.e. will o wisp.","Protects against fire moves.  Once one has been blocked, the Pokémon's own Fire moves inflict 1.5× damage until it leaves battle."
19,shield-dust,"This Pokémon is immune to the extra effects of moves used against it.

An extra effect is a move's chance, listed as an ""effect chance"", to inflict a status ailment, cause a stat change, or make the target flinch in addition to the move's main effect.  For example, thunder shock's paralysis is an extra effect, but thunder wave's is not, nor are knock off's item removal and air cutter's increased critical hit rate.",Protects against incoming moves' extra effects.
20,own-tempo,"This Pokémon cannot be confused.

If a Pokémon is confused and acquires this ability, its confusion will immediately be healed.",Prevents confusion.
